Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two Oh three
recorded live Saturday, February 27th, 2010. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
teller rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdotteldrik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with two dash
soft employees, programmer Lemmys and
senior systems analyst. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'm here in
Cairo, Egypt. In fact, at
the German university of Cairo
at Cairo code camp two
day event here in Egypt
on the weekends. And I'm
sitting in one of the
rooms here and you might
be hearing people walking by
because we're in a very
busy university in Cairo, and
I've got the opportunity to
sit down with two employees
of dash soft, who is
sponsoring me coming here to
Cairo. We've got Lemese who's
a programmer at desks off.
Is that correct? And then
over here, who is a
systems analyst and project manager.
Yeah. Fantastic. So I thought
it would be really interesting
to sit down and talk
a little bit about you
guys in your career, because
even though I've traveled around
the world and around the
Muslim world, I was really
impressed with the level of
integration of women in technology
here in, in, in Cairo,
it looks like it's about
40 or 50% of this
code camp is women. And
I say that with shock
because 40 or 50% of
the population of the world
is women, but in the
U S I'm lucky to
see 10 or 20%, this
doesn't match in my head.
Is this unusual or is
this typical in Egypt, actually
in the it community? I
think it's typical to find
50, 50% of men and
women in universities and conferences
and in companies as well.
It's very typical here. Really
women and men, Oliver workplaces,
we worked together. So it's
usually 50, 50%. And today
I find it pretty weird
that that's not the case
in the U S and
Europe. It's pretty few read
to me. The, why do
you think that is? Because
I think that in the
U S we discourage women
and girls specifically young women
to get into technical things,
to get into math, to
get into science, to get
into compute and logic. And
you, then in your opinion,
work most in as circuitries
and the office office, they
don't get into technologists. They're
not, they don't get difficult
jobs, but It's actually, it's
weird. I don't know why
is that? Let's try to
see if we can figure
that out. Cause I think
that that's the interesting question
of the day. Is this
a, a, a uniquely Egyptian
thing, or is this something
about the Muslim world or
maybe the Arab world that
is do young fathers encourage
their women, their girl, child,
and their boy child's similarly
towards science and math. Okay.
Let me tell you my
side of the story. And
then we can try to
figure it out in Muslim
world. Education is very crucial.
We are, we are encouraged
to be educated on the
highest level of education since
we are three or five
years old. So we go
to private school. There is
nothing sad about not being
able to handle science and
mathematics. This is the first
time I've heard that from
you. Now. We are always
encouraged to study hard study
Wells. So the everything personally,
I wanted to go to
an art school actually, after
I graduated and the one
pushed me to computer science
as my father, he insisted
on me going to computer
science because it's, it's the
next booming thing and would
provide me with a better
career and better income and
make me a more independent
and useful to the community.
So we don't have that
kind of discrimination or difference
on the contrary, we have
to study well and hard
to be recognized as to
have our parents proud. And
our family's proud. It's it's
the very norm. You can
go to engineering schools here
and colleges, you will find
50, 50% in all levels,
mechanics, engineering, electronics, and everything.
So we don't have this
idea here on the country.
We need to study hard
everything. Actually, the Egyptian parents
are usually very pushy about
education. So when someone gets
low degrees, they're the punching
them into. Yeah. And they
get frustrated there. You don't
mean actually punching them, but
I mean, pressuring them to
move and Yes, and yeah,
and they get sad because
of that. So Egyptian parents
are very pushy about education
and encouraging people to, to
get higher degrees either they
are girls or boys. So
do either of you have
a brothers or have a
younger brother. Okay. So do
you feel that you're being
encouraged and pushed towards greatness,
I guess is a good
way to put it as
equally as your brother? Yeah.
Yeah. Him and my father
actually always puts me as
a role model for my
brother and he wants him
to be an engineer on
a programmer like me. So
he really encourages him by
me. So the thing that
I'm trying to reconcile is
I think that for a
lot of the listeners who
may not necessarily have traveled
that much or who have
an assumption about, and I,
and I think that we
also tend to, we as
Westerners tend to group, we
say Arab world than Muslim
world, and then specific country
cultures, you know, cause not
all of the Arab world
is, is, is Muslim. Although
it's assumed, but there's probably
a 10% Coptic or Christian
here. I've, I've met a
number of Christians Egypt's and
sir, then there's so there's
the Arab world larger sense.
There's the Egyptian kind of,
there is the Muslim world.
And then there's the Egyptian
culture I'm trying to understand.
Is it one of these
three levels as we kind
of peel away the layers
that is, that is encouraging.
Is this an, a uniquely
Egyptian thing? Yeah. The middle
East all over the middle
East, you find women in
many technologies. So it's all
over the middle East. It's
not only Egyptian. Is this
a new thing? Is this
the, the new generation? Was
it like this in the
sixties and seventies? Is this
from the eighties or something?
I think it started from
the fifties or something because
my grandfather actually made sure
that my five aunts went
to education. So I'm in
Turkey. And so I'm in
Egypt and he was living
in Kuwait. So he would
send them to colleges and
it was the fifties. So
I think, no, it started
earlier. Now this is the
norm in the nineties and
the eighties. This is the
absolute norm. This is the
least you can do. Wouldn't
you say though, that this
is the norm in what
we would call moderate Islamic
countries. Because the, the messaging
that we hear, the marketing
quote, unquote, the marketing of
the Muslim world, that a
lot of Westerners here and
a lot of the Americans
here is this oppression of
women happening in the Muslim
world. But as we look
around us here at the
code camp, I see like
you say, 40, 50% women.
I see women with the
hijab, with the scarf women,
without everyone is talking and
interacting, sitting together. It's not
the seating area is not
in any way segregated where
we're eating, we're chatting. Is
this a moderate Arab world
thing? There are countries that
are not this progressive. I
agree. I have to agree.
Most of the Arab countries
are moderate, but some countries
are less, but they are
moving towards this direction because
it's, non-religious, that's actually Islam
as a religion, pushes people
to educate their children, boys
and girls. And by any,
by no means it discriminates
between a girl and a
boy. So I don't understand
how this happened, but I
think it's more of a
cultural thing than a religious
thing because in our own
illusion, everybody is equal and
that's a must actually that's
the basic of the religion
that everybody is equal colors,
gender, and nationality, anything. The
other thing you said about
people interacting with hijab without
to jab or different religions,
this is very common in
our worlds. And we, we,
don't never put this in
mind, whether I'm dealing with
a Christian. Most of my
friends are, I have a
lot of friends that are
Christian and have a lot
of girlfriends that are not
wearing hijab. And this was
never an issue because simply
there is no compulsion in
Islam. So everybody is free
to do whatever he wants.
Hmm. Would you say that
it is then an overly
strict reading of some of
the specifics of Islam that
have caused some other countries
to head in a direction
that is a little more
conservative? Because I think that
maybe people who are listening
to this who may not
be familiar with Islam, I
may not have read the
Koran may feel that well,
that's not what I heard.
I heard that I heard
that you can look up
and in this chapter in
the Quran and it says
that, you know, women must
do this and women must
do that. I mean, there
are things that say what
the relationship between a husband
and wife should be. And
there are sections of the
Koran that do discuss about
the appropriateness of certain interactions
between men and women. True.
But it puts a rights
on both sides, the man
and the woman, you will
never find a part of
Koran that just asks women
to do something. And not
men, that's not true except
for hijab, maybe because for
obvious reasons, but you'll never
find that in, in Koran.
Absolutely no, no, no way.
You will find rules. If
you will find directions for
a better life, a better
standards, ethics and stuff, but
it applies on both genders.
You don't find that in
a specific way to women.
So this is really interesting.
So applying this to the
business of software, because I'm
talking to a programmer and
then a systems analyst, I
came to your, to your
company and got a tour
and I was kind of
impressed and heartened to find
you guys working in what
I could only describe as
kind of a scrum like
environment. It is, it is
actually, that's very accurate. It
was, it is a scrum
project and an agile project.
We are leaning very strongly
towards a giant now and
as crime environment, because simply
it tightens the, and tightens
the communication between, between the
team and relies more on
individuals. And it's like, it's
like a small family in
the room. So everybody, everyone
that has a question or
a problem is supported always.
And that's, that's the way
we will. Yeah. I would
say that I was, I
considered myself fairly enlightened and
educated about how the way
of the world is. But
when I arrived in Egypt
and went into a room
and found, I think about
10 people around a room,
all working together, co located,
and there was a, what
appeared to be an, a
Kanban board up on the
wall. Was that correct? That's
true. And I'm looking at
the post it's saying done,
not done working and all
this kind of thing. Yeah.
I would have to say
that again, using the, the
lens by which I view
the Muslim world as a
westerner, I am surprised to
see you guys working literally
kind of shoulder to shoulder
in this room as, as
we would call it a
war room. Right. I mean,
it's just like you guys
chose to do this, to
make your project successful. You
chose to co-locate. I actually
mentioned that to the boss
and he's like, Oh yeah,
this is how they want
to run this project. It
doesn't seem to me like
it's compatible with what I
understood. The way things worked
over here. Just unique. No,
I was just about to
say, you will find this
in now. You will find
it in almost every company
that there is at least
one or two projects running
on a giant mythologies. Everybody's
in the room and everybody's
working together. I've been to
several companies that worked on
projects with the same methodology
over the past two years.
So let me say, as
a, as a programmer is,
have you always worked on
agile projects as long as
your career? Or have you
worked in other ways? No.
I usually work on agile
projects actually. I'm now transferring
into a system or care
transfer. Yeah. Transformation of your
career. So, but all of
my projects were agile at
two, and it's a way
better than the CMI or
something's great. Co-operative between the
team members makes everyone helpful
And you'd find it compatible
with the way the culture
works. There was no thought
like, Oh, we're going to
work this closely together. We're
not going to No, no,
no, no, no, please, no.
We, we go together to
college. We go together to
school, men and women. So
we, we are used to
that, all of our lives.
How long have you two
been in the industry? If
you don't mind Event three
in five years now, we're
I think seven years a
year. And if you have
you worked at multiple companies
or only at Dasha and
for me, it's only their
stuff I've worked in like
five companies, I think five
women, seven years. Yeah. And
some are nice. I know
it looks bad. I know.
Yeah. I don't know if
they, even as agile as,
as, let me say this
experience has been for the
past three years. Yeah, really?
Yeah. Before it wasn't, this
is a movement, this agile
way of managing projects and
systems is absolutely global and
cross-cultural. Yeah, Because it has
proven value to everybody. It
has proven to work more
effectively with clients and with
the team and everybody's happy
and content. So why not?
Do you have a scrum
masters or agile coaches that
have come in from either
other Egypt or outside of
Egypt? Or how did, how
did you each as a
systems analyst and then now
as a programmer who is
transitioning into a role as
assistant manager, how do you
learn this and, and, and
use best practices First introduced
to  through an agile
coach? Yeah, he came, but
he was an Egyptian with
a PhD from the United States
on the job. And he
came and he gave us
a training and he coached
a program. That's how I,
I was initiated to the
jail. If we can say
for me, it's a bit
different. We started agile. So
we, yeah, we started to
read about agile Oliver, all
of the team now. And
we started helping each other
to understand agile. We started
to, to apply different methodologies
and practices. And so we
were trying to reach the,
the best practice of using
agile, but we didn't, we
didn't use a coach or
something to, to help us
through a job. It was
all self, self reading in
self practicing. How many people
are on the team of
the project that you're, We're
now eight or seven. So
we have a team leader
and three developers. And when
DBA and me is assistant
managers and area is, is
a senior system analyst. And
at the same time. Okay.
And what does a systems
analyst in the context of
how you're using that word?
Cause that that word is
kind of an overloaded term.
You know, it can be
anything, he'd be the person
who is the bridge between
the business and the Yes.
Yeah, exactly. That's how we
contact the customer and get
the, the requirements from the
customer and transfer, transform it
into terms that team can
understand. Then we plan together
the sprint. And then we
are where delivering to the
customer, what he wants. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman from
another parallel universe, got to
tell you about some of
our things our sponsors are
doing. They make this free
podcast possible. If you're developing
a new line of business
application, you've probably tried the
latest version of server lines.
Now you can get even
better results by combining the
functionality and server for beta,
with some of the richness
or the third party controls
from our friends at Tellerik,
they're the first vendors to
offer native support for the
server Lite for beta and
their rad controls. You've got
a new satellite for CTP
suite of these controls. They
let you tap into the
frameworks, great potential. You got
native right mouse click and
all the new features of
server line. There's 38 controls
that give you all these
features. You can start building
those compelling line of business
applications right away and encourage
you to check those products
out at tellerik.com/silverlight. And, you
know, thank Tellerik for supporting
dot and rock supporting Hansel
minutes on their Facebook fan
page at facebook.com/tellerik. Now back
to the show, what kind
of tools are you using
to maintain a product backlog?
Sometimes there are specific scrum
tools and it can be
something that you would buy
and host, or it can
be as simple as a
list of posted notes. No,
it's actually a video, the
team system. And of course
the information role we used
to, we put the E
the posted notes of the
tusks. So we move it
every day in this Chrome
meeting. So are you using
some of the scrum templates
for the team system or
Yes. It's creme for SIEM
systems. Contango. Yeah. Template. Yeah.
Contango. Yeah. So it's a
contango scrum templates for TFS.
Now you guys are actually
an outsource you're you are
outsourced. So you're on the
other end of outsourcing, right?
This is being driven from
another country. Yes. I work
for a Remi current company
in the Netherlands and the
older customers are in the
Netherlands. So they're only an
hour away. So effectively you
don't have the kind of
outsourcing problems. No. But other
teams do have the, they
work for a Canadian, a
Canadian customers. So they have
like seven, seven hours difference
their time zone. Yeah. What
are some of the challenges
that you've, you've dealt with?
I mean, I think, again,
speaking from the point of
view of an American, which
is the only point of
view that I know at
this point, the Dutch and
the Egyptians are as pretty
different culture. I mean, the
culture is equally out there
as I think Americans perceive
them. They, they are a
world to be out there.
What does that relationship like?
Hey, this are pretty decent.
People exited Mean decent people,
but you know, they're extremely
progressive socially progressive individuals. Yeah.
Actually they, the theme American
with and the Netherlands are
pretty helpful and we work
together pretty well. So I
don't think cultural differences interfere
ever whether work in an
it community because we all
have the basic same knowledge.
We have the basic same
thinking. We are all focused
on a very different goal,
which is to develop a
good product that makes everybody
happy, that testifies the needs
of the client. So I
don't see, we never get
into cultural differences that is
never an issue. And I
have, I have the chance
to work with an American
client using an angina methodology.
And the time difference was
like seven or eight hours.
And we just adjusted rework
a little bit plate and,
and the whole team started
coming to us at noon
and leaving at the evening.
It's, it's pretty much just
logistics, but never had any
cultural issues interfere in the
job. Never. Yeah. And w
would you, let me, let
me see if I can
paraphrase a little bit. Would
you say that it is
the culture of being a,
a programmer or maybe even
going so far to say
that nerds are the same
everywhere? You know what I'm
saying? I have to agree
with that. Although this is
not what I meant, but
yeah, because we have the
same education, the same way
of thinking. You have to
admit that we think a
little bit differently than everybody
does from an it point
of view. So we, we
share a base of understanding
and knowledge that makes everything
easier. Even with clients. I
mean, I had a client
that has absolutely no idea
about how it works, but
she just had faith in
the team and she would
say what she wants. And
we would tell her how
the best way to do
it. And we call Pruitt.
It's still, I think we
were having, having a shared
goal is what makes everything
easier and drives everybody as
long as we are both
committed and we have faith
in each other. That's a
really, that's a really positive
attitude. Do you think that
that's maybe an overly idealized
attitude That has been my
experience so far? I think
absolutely. There are different experiences,
but can we say it's
the majority? I think that's
the exception. Okay. What are
some of the things that
you've struggled with if time
zones are not too much
trouble? And are you back,
are you having any bandwidth
issues or power issues? Do
you just do the work
locally or are you remoting
into other people's machines? What's
the general setup. We, the
developer, the development environment is
in Egypt and we deploy
it on a remote environment
for the client to see,
we don't have bandwidth issue
or a communications issue. We
all use Cabi or a
voice over IP. So we
never faced any technical challenges
in terms of technology. It's
just the distance. And sometimes
we have issues with the
remote deployment, but it's usually
fixed within a day or
two. So it sounds like
the infrastructure of a, of,
of Egypt, which is there
are other countries in North
Africa that have a little
bit more trouble with their
infrastructure. You have, haven't gotten
in trouble with your internet
connections here. No, I think
Egypt is one of the
most advanced countries in, in
African, the middle East in
terms of infrastructure. Because in
other countries you will find
this as a, as a
problem, but here the norm
is having a DSL line
in every house. So you
can find that you can
chase a problem like this
here pretty much improving now
over time. So we have
a larger bandwidth and the
wireless connections are starting to
be in every cafe or
something starting to improve over
time. No, I, I, and
in the U S I'm
in a, a, a unique,
but growing group of remote
workers, I do a lot
of work from home. Cause
I don't live in Seattle.
If you have the option
to work from home, if
you know, if there's a
sick child or something that
needs to be managed at
home. Yes, we do have
that too. And do you
have internet straight to your
home or do you use
3g? And we have internet
every, every, I think every
homeowner is having a DSL
line. Now I, I forgive
me if I'm asking silly
questions here, you guys are
looking at each other like,
yeah. I mean, who doesn't
have internet? We recently had
a, a report in the
U S that about 35%
of people in the U
S use, dial up. No,
I, no one uses dialogue
here, really, especially in the
IC community now, because it's
a must to go through
college to have an internet.
So you have to have
internet the SLR, Really. So
DSL is the minimum. There's
no dial up around here
for at least for the
it people. No, not that
the statistic I gave that
just came out in the
U S it's 30 to
35%. This is the larger
general popular. No, I think
this is pretty reasonable. I
think it might be a
little less even in here,
but, but, and on it
community, the norm is DSL
line. I'm getting back a
little bit to the concept
of, of, of women in
technology. Are there any barriers
when you come, when you
choose to have kids, or
if your husband is also
working in, in the industry
or is it where you
have to choose to stay
home or not with the
child or where you have
your grandparents to take care
of the kids? Oh, there
are a lot of solutions.
I think most of the
women in the Arctic community
already are married and have
kids. Usually the law here
is to have a maternity
leave for three months. And
after that, a lot of
women abused their parents, babies,
or the child, or pull
them in, in, in a
nursery. Some companies now have
nurseries in the company, like
the GUC the GC have
a nursery for the employees
to have Cancer. Do you
see it here as the
German university? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
The German university uses the
concept and it's it's I
have to say it's, it's
going very well. And it's
a very widespread idea. So
no, we don't have that
constraints unless you're not able
to satisfy your child's need
that in that concept. You
will probably put his best
interests first. Yeah, of course.
So let me ask you
this, then it seems like
you guys, and I'm referring
here to Egyptians seem to
have got this male, female
engineering thing worked out. What
can you help us? What
can you tell us what
tips or advice? Because it
seems like the in, in,
in, in the States, we
don't do enough to encourage
young women in technology, such
that they may even decide
that, you know, quote unquote,
math is hard by the
time they're 10. And I
see this in my nieces,
you know, and my, my,
I have two boys, but
my, my family members that
have daughters that by the
time the child is 12
or 13, if they haven't
gotten hooked on science, the,
the, the women, the young
girls may have just given
up, is this something that
needs to happen at the
parent at the parental level
or The school level? I
think everyone shares the responsibility.
The parents need to, to
mainly focus with their kids
and never let them have
the idea that they can
do something because evidently math
is not hard for a
woman and apparently not. Yeah.
So the concept propagated by
the media and the, this
to you typing of being
unable to understand math is,
is a myth. I think
it's the responsibility of society
as a whole, to, to
eliminate that myth and foremost
as the responsibility of schools
and the parents. Because if
I tell my daughter, you,
you might understand math. She
will never even try to,
it's a mental, it's a
mental barrier. So if you
eliminate that mental barrier and
show role models of women
in the technology, I think
everything will go well. Yeah.
I think there is maybe
their daughters too much of
a, of science or something.
That's why they don't even
try. So they have to
encourage them more into, into,
into math and science. They
may show them small, small
price of it when they
are charged. And it may,
may make them encouraged to
go into that business. And
am I hearing both of
you say that your parents
very much encourage you to
get into this field, even
for you beyond art, you
have to have is like,
Hey yeah, focus on computers.
You probably have to do
art on the side. Do
you, do you have memories
of them, of your parents
being interested in things that
are science, watching science shows
on TV and walking around
and looking at bugs and
all that kind of Yes.
Yeah. Going to science museums.
My father took me a
couple of times to science
museum and showed me around.
He started to ask people
about the computer business since
he was 15 or something.
So he prepares me for
that since it was a
teenager, he starts to ask
people about it. And if
it's good for me or
bad for me. So they
started encouraging us pretty, pretty
young. Was your father in
the business or was he,
he's an English teacher. Oh,
really? Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. And
what about your family? Same
applies here. My parents are
architects, both of them, but
my father is pretty much
into technology. I remember having
an IBM PC at home
whenever, when early in the
days when it was like
these large flip floppy desks
and everything's running on doors,
the windows green, and that's
it. I have this at
home. I still have it.
I think so. And he
would just upgrade the system
every time, anything, new games,
new games. And so I
grew up having technology at
home. Actually, I was very
good at math and my
father noticed that when I
was young. So he, he
was always telling me, you
gotta be an engineer because
you're good at math. So
I think that push into
being something that's as valuable.
And knowing that I Excel
in math and technologies are
at home, is made thinking
of, is, is evidence a
result of my education? Oh,
it definitely sounds like you've
kind of, you've kind of
nailed it right there, which
is the, you had technology
around you all the time.
You had encouragement all the
time. Your parents identify that
you had a skill and
reminded you of that all
the time. Hey, you can
do this. This is interesting.
You have the, you have
the power. And I think
that that's definitely the formula
for success regardless of gender.
Absolutely. I was the math
genius of the home. My
sister was the science genius
of the home and she's
a girl, so no, we
never have this, this, I
don't know what to call
it. Even this limitation, the
stereotype limitation of not me
able to do something. I
think it always comes to
what they expect from you.
If they expect you to
be a doctor or an
engineer, you will do your
best to be a doctor
or an engineer. But if
the society as a whole
treats you as less and
expect less from you, or
even not less, but different
a model of what you
should be as a woman,
probably you are gonna go
naturally into that direction. So
this might be a weird,
this might be a weird
question, but do you think
that the, there there is
less because there is less
or visibly less? And the
only way I can think
about this as the less
sexualization of women in public,
that this enables you to
be more of an equal,
I mean, in the U
S some women, some young
women might say, well, I
want to be in a
music video, or I want
to go do dancing or
other kinds of things that
are unique to their sex
and possible only because they
are women, because that's not
something that is encouraged or
out in the public, people
are people. And there are,
other than the hijab, there
is really no gender distinction
about what you can do.
Would you, would you think
that that's the, that's the
case Today? They're pretty different
going in a music video
and being an engineer. So
they're pretty different, extremely different
careers. But what I'm saying
is that, that, that idea
that, well, math is hard.
The only thing I can
do is use my body
to, you know, my, my
woman to get a job.
Well, here, I'm hearing, I'm
hearing, I'm only hearing brains.
I'm hearing. I can use
my brain in this way.
I can use my brain
in that way. Yeah. It
might be the case men.
I think if women in
us are encouraging more too,
that they can do it
to go into science and
math definitely would do it.
I think I have to
agree with your conclusion a
little bit more than Lemmys,
because I think it's now
built in, in, in their
brains that they are, this,
this is the best I
can do. This is, wow.
This is the, the ambition,
The idea that I'm a
woman first, and I should
look towards my womanliness to
support myself as opposed to
my intellectual and in our
culture, Our sexuality is not
the, the main at all.
It's not the main asset
that we have at all,
because our gender and our
body, or whatever it is
is, is, is typically needed
for family and for husband
and the kids. And that's
why that's, those are the
people that will benefit from
me being a woman, as
a woman, typically in the
normal society. That's not the
case. And I'm just a
person that is a productive
person. And this is what
Well, and this is one
of the things that I'm
realizing that even myself, as
what I think of myself
as a fairly forward thinking
and progressive individual, I still
have these built in Western
stereotypes of women versus men.
And I hope you won't
be offended to me, but
I'll tell you what, this
little bit of information I've
been interacting with you on
email for three months as
we've been organizing this. And
I've had literally dozens of
email conversations with you. And
I didn't know that you
were a woman until I
arrived at the airport and
the man, the man who
picked me up at the
airport and handed me the
telephone. And you said, hi,
it's Lemmys. And I said,
in my mind, I went,
well, That's shocking. I don't
know. See, I don't know
Lamesa is a man's name
or a woman's name. So
of course, if I was
familiar with Arabic names, I
would know, but it took
me a moment and I
was actually a little ashamed
of myself because I had
any reaction at all, because
I'm so used to a
proliferation of men in technology
that I just, again, I
apologize. I assumed that in
Arab country that the organizers
would be men. And I'm
not saying that I had
the thought and set the
thought it was just a
background assumption. Yeah. So, yeah,
I literally, I landed in
the airport and the man
said, Oh, Lemmys wants to
talk to you. And I
said, hello? And I expected
her. Oh, and I got
you. So I, I, that
got me thinking about this
topic and got me excited
to sit down with you
guys and chat with you
about this today. Yeah. And
we have pretty much, pretty
much changes to technology. Actually.
It's shocking me that he
didn't realize that, but it's
pretty, yeah. Pretty common here.
Why should? And this is
where I'm learning too, is
that why should it matter?
And I think that's the
whole point and a good
place to end our podcast
today. Thank you very much
for talking to me today
here at Cairo university in
Cairo, Egypt. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'll see you again
next week.